NSF App Process Document


In this video, we will learn how to use the Navsahyog app.
To get started, you need to download the app using the APK and install it. When you open the app, you will see two options: Online and Offline. Select the Online mode.
Next, enter your User ID in the first field. Before entering the password, click the eye icon to make the characters visible. The default password for everyone is TEST*1234.
Note: Please ensure you enter the password correctly. If you enter the wrong password three times, your ID will be locked.
After entering the details, click Login. Once logged in, you will be prompted to change your password. Do not change the password. Just  re-enter TEST*1234 and proceed to log in again.
After you have logged in, you can see three horizontal lines (menu icon) on the top right side of the app. Click on it. At the top, you will see our organization's logo, followed by the Navsahyog Foundation email ID.
Below that, you will find the Language option. Choose the language that you are most comfortable with.
Next, scroll down and click on the Profile option. Here, you can view your name, User ID, and your date of joining. If you find any errors in this information, please inform your AF (Area Facilitator) immediately.
Now, let us learn how to add children to the app.
First, click on the Children option visible on the app’s home screen. You will see the name of the village; click on it. Then, click on the + (plus) mark at the bottom. Enter the child's First Name and Last Name. Next, fill in the child's gender, date of birth, school name, village name, and Aadhaar number. As per NSNOP we are not supposed to collect children’s Aadhar Number. 
After that, you must enter the parents' details (Father's name, Aadhaar number, phone number, and Mother's name, Aadhaar number, phone number).
Note: Ensure a smartphone number is provided. If they do not have a smartphone, provide an alternative number and specify the relationship of that person to the child.
Enter the date the child joined the program. (You will see another option called 'Graduate'; we will discuss this later). Finally, upload the child's photo and click Submit. Once submitted, a message will confirm that the registration is successful.
________________


How to Mark a Child as 'Graduate'
Now, let us learn how to mark a child as a Graduate.
Go to the Children option and select the village. Click on the name of the child who is graduating and leaving our program. Click on the Edit option at the bottom. Scroll down to find the Graduate option and select it. Choose the graduation date, and in the Reason field, select 'Pass Out.' Click on Submit, and a success message will appear.
Once this is done, the child's name will appear in black and white, indicating that the submission was successful and the process is complete.
Now, let us learn how to record attendance.
First, click on the Attendance option on the app's home screen. After clicking, a date selection tool will appear; select the date and click 'OK'. (You also have the option to mark attendance for the previous two days. This is helpful if you face network issues in your area; simply select the relevant past date).
Next, select your village. After choosing the village and date, you will see options for the program’s Start Time and End Time. Enter the exact time you are conducting the session. Then, in the 'Select Event' option, choose the specific program you conducted that day.
There is also a Voice Note option available below, which you can use to record attendance details.
Below that, you will see a list of children's names with a checkbox next to each. Mark the attendance by clicking the box for the children who are present. Leave the others blank. Finally, click on 'Submit' to complete the process. ( Now your village name will appear in green color)


Now, let us learn how to capture and upload photos and videos.
First, click on the Capture Video and Photo option in the home screen. Towards the right side bottom, you will see an icon with a box and an arrow; click on it. This will show options for Video, Documents, and Camera. Select the Camera icon to take a photo of the program. After capturing the photo, click OK and then Save. Select the Video icon to take a video of the program. After capturing the video, click OK.
Once the photo and video appears on the screen, click on the box under the photo or video. After clicking the box, select the Tag Event or Tag Activity option at the top. If the photo or video is related to Annual Competition (AC) or Special Event then select Tag Event. Click on it, then select the Event option. Choose the specific program that matches the photo or video you have taken (for example, 'Special Event') After selecting the correct event, click OK, and finally click Save. Then click on the box under the photo or video, now towards the right side top you can see a cloud and arrow icon. Click on that and wait for the photo or video to get uploaded. Once the photo  or video is uploaded, they will disappear from the screen. 
If the photo or video is related to our daily activities (Boardgames, Running Race, Kho - Kho, Kabaddi etc.,) No Activity  Raining, No Activity Training, Prakriti Prem, Dhan Kaushal, Jal Vriddhi then select Tag Activity. Click on it, then select the Event option. Choose the specific program that matches the photo or video you have taken (for example, 'Board Games'). After selecting the correct event, click OK, and finally click Save. Then click on the box under the photo or video, now towards the right side top you can see a cloud and arrow icon. Click on that and wait for the photo or video to get uploaded. Once the photo  or video is uploaded, they will disappear from the screen. 
For AFs and above:
After clicking the upload icon, you have to select the village name where you want to upload the photo or video.
Now, let us learn how to add Achievements:
First, Click on Achievements in the home screen. You will be able to see the children's list. On the right side bottom there will be a ‘+’ sign. Click on that ‘+’ sign, now by clicking on the select student, a list will appear. Now select the Student name from the list. After selecting the student, add the achievement description (for example if it is related to SoM - “Asha is taking initiative in maintaining the discipline and she comes to the program on time everyday.” If the achievement is related to Annual Competition (AC) - “Surya has won 1st Place in the Running Race.” Once this part is completed, select the date and type of achievement. Select SoM for Star of the Month and Gold or silver medal for Annual Competition (AC). If you have selected SoM then you can click on submit. Only if you have selected the Gold or silver medal, then you have to enter the number of gold and silver medals the child has received. Then click on the submit button.
Dashboard:
After logging into the NavSahyog App, towards the left side top there are 3 lines. Once you click on it, you will be able to see the dashboard option. Click on it, and you will be able to see 5 boxes named after locations, Village Coordinators, Area Facilitator, Children, and Attendance. For example: I will click on Children, next click on India, now select the North East Zone (NEZ) or South Zone (SZ), I will select the South Zone (SZ). The next option that appears is S1 (Tamil Nadu) and S2 (Karnataka), I will select S2 and click on Karnataka. Next select KAR 01 or KAR02, I will select KAR01. Under this 3 options appear - Bangalore Urben, Ramanagara, and Tumkur. Now I will be selecting Ramanagara, click on Ramanagara, select BID01. Now the villages list appears by clicking on the eye icon. By clicking the download arrow mark, the file gets downloaded in the form of excel sheet. Similarly, you can try for other regions and clusters as well.
Consolidated Dashboard:
After logging into the NavSahyog App, towards the left side top you will see 3 lines. Once you click on it, you will be able to see the consolidated dashboard option. Click on it, and you will be able to see a green stripe which has a single and double calendar icons. If you want to view the dashboard of a single/ one day then select the single calendar option. If you want to view the dashboard for multiple days or months then you will have to select the double calendar icon which is also called a range wise calendar. After selecting either of the calendar for example: After selecting the single calendar icon, select any one date and click on done which is on the top right side.  Select the cluster and now the consolidated dashboard is visible with details of attendance, average children, image / video. Along with these details a consolidated dashboard bar chart will be given. If more details are required, then click on ‘View More’, the details of each village will be visible.
Offline Usage of the NavSahyog App:
When you open the app, you will be able to see two options: Online and Offline. Select the Offline mode.
Next, enter your User ID in the first field. Before entering the password, click the eye icon to make the characters visible. The default password for everyone is TEST*1234.
In the offline mode, we will be able to mark Attendance, add Achievements, Capture Photos and Videos.
After adding or making any changes in the offline mode, once you get a better network / internet login through online mode. Click on Upload Offline Data - select the option you had entered offline and upload it by clicking the cloud and arrow icon which is towards the top right side. Once the data is uploaded, a notification alert will be visible.